# DATA DE-DUPLICATION SYSTEM USING CHECKSUM
ADVANCED DATABASE TOPICS – COMP8157
Group 30
Amandeep Singh Sawhney	105218568
Gurpreet Singh	105192019
Lakshdeep Singh	105210335
Mehak Taluja	110013132
Project Milestone – 2

A cloud database is a database service that is designed and accessed through a cloud platform. The users install applications to deploy the database on
a cloud network. Despite the added simplicity of cloud computing, it performs many of the same purposes as a conventional database. Nowadays, a cloud database
is an easy gateway for users to build and maintain database without worrying about the setup and server maintenance cost within an organization.
Keeping in mind the humongous amounts of data generated by organizations nowadays, data can be a game changer for an organization. This large amount of data, 
often referred to as Big Data, provides useful insights to an organization according to which an organization can mould its decisions and adjust its regular 
practices and methods to fare better when compared to other organizations. Several issues are associated with such tremendous amounts of data, such as data 
cleaning, data integrity and many more. One such issue is of Data Replication, which means that there exist redundant copies of data. These redundant copies of
data significantly hamper the performance of a system since redundant copies result in a congested network bandwidth.
So, to counter this problem of data replication, we have decided to develop a Data Replication Removal System using cloud databases. After conducting a detailed
and appropriate research, we decided that File Checksum would be the best technique for data deduplication. We have used Python to develop a script that 
calculates the file checksum for a file. It then compares this checksum value with the checksum values of other files already present in the database. If two 
or more files have the same checksum, it is assumed that the files have the same content. As a result, the duplicate files are deleted. Hence duplicate files 
are deleted, and the issue of data replication is resolved. The Python script accepts the path of the cloud database as a parameter. The files in the database 
are then processed and the checksum values for the files are calculated. Files having the same checksum values are deleted. 
